What is Version Control ?
    Version Control is a system that helps track and manage changes to files, projects, or codebases over time. It allows multiple people (or even a single developer) to work on the same project without overwriting each other’s work, and provides a way to go back to earlier versions if needed.
    Think of it as a "time machine" for your code or documents.

    Key points about Version Control:
    Tracks Changes → Keeps a history of edits, additions, and deletions.
    Collaboration → Multiple developers can work together without conflicts.
    Backup & Recovery → You can roll back to a stable version if something breaks.
    Branching & Merging → Developers can experiment in separate branches and later merge changes into the main project.
    Accountability → Shows who made changes, when, and why (with commit messages).

    Types of Version Control:
    Local Version Control → Stores revisions on your local machine (simple but limited).
    Centralized Version Control (CVCS) → One central server (e.g., Subversion, CVS).
    Distributed Version Control (DVCS) → Every developer has a full copy of the repository (e.g., Git, Mercurial).

    👉 The most widely used version control system today is Git, and platforms like GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket make collaboration easier.
What is Git and Github ?
    🔹 What is Git?
    Git is a Distributed Version Control System (DVCS).
    It helps developers track changes in code, manage versions, and collaborate with others.
    Every developer has a full copy of the project history on their machine.
    It allows you to create branches, experiment with features, and then merge changes back into the main project.

    👉 Example: If you are building a website, Git can keep track of every change (like editing HTML, CSS, JS files). You can revert back to old versions anytime.

    🔹 What is GitHub?
    GitHub is a cloud-based hosting platform for Git repositories.
    It provides a remote server where you can store your Git projects online.
    It makes collaboration easier by letting multiple developers contribute to the same project.

    Features of GitHub:
    Remote Repositories → Store code online, accessible anywhere.
    Collaboration → Multiple people can work on the same repo.
    Pull Requests (PRs) → Propose and review changes before merging.
    Issues & Project Boards → Track bugs, tasks, and progress.
    Integration → Works with CI/CD, actions, and many dev tools.

    👉 Think of Git as the tool (installed on your computer), and GitHub as the online platform where you share your Git projects.

    ✅ Simple Analogy:

    Git = Personal diary (you write and track everything on your computer).
    GitHub = Social media for code (you publish your diary online so others can see, comment, and contribute).
Commands
git  -v
    Tells the version of git installed

git init
    To initialize the git repository for version control

git add .
    To add all the files to the staging area

git commit -m "Message/Tag"
    Commit the file it's like a snapshot for code at a particular time.
    
ctrl + backtick -> terminal open 