Four main parts of Git and GitHub
    The Git & GitHub commit cycle generally goes through four main parts when you work on code:

    Working Directory (Untracked/Modified files)
    This is where you edit your project files.
    Any changes made here are not yet tracked by Git until you stage them.

    Staging Area (Index)
    When you run git add <file>, your changes move into the staging area.
    It’s like a "draft box" where you prepare files for the next commit.

    Local Repository (Commit)
    Running git commit -m "message" saves the staged changes permanently into your local Git repository’s history.
    Now the changes are part of your local project history.

    Remote Repository (Push to GitHub)
    When you run git push origin main (or another branch), your commits are sent from your local repository to GitHub (the remote repository).
    This makes your changes visible to collaborators.

    👉 In short:
    Working Directory → Staging Area → Local Repository → Remote Repository

Working directory
    The Working Directory is the place on your computer where your actual project files live.

    Here’s what it means in Git:
    It’s the real folder where you create, edit, or delete files.
    Any changes you make here are considered unstaged (not yet tracked by Git for the next commit).
    When you run git status, Git will show you which files in the working directory are modified, untracked, or deleted.

Staging area
    Staging Area (also called Index or Cache)
    It’s like a holding area between your Working Directory and your Local Repository.
    After editing files in the working directory, you add them to the staging area using:
    git add <filename>
    Files in the staging area are ready to be committed, but not yet saved into the project history.
    You can stage specific files (to commit only some changes) or stage all changes (git add .).

Local repository
    The Local Repository is where Git permanently stores your project’s history on your computer.

    When you run:
    git commit -m "your message"
    the files move from the Staging Area → Local Repository.
    Commits here are like snapshots of your project at a specific point in time.
    You can view all commits with:
    git log
    Even if you’re offline, your commits are safe in the local repo.

Remote repository
    A Remote Repository is the version of your project stored on the internet (e.g., GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket).
    It allows you to share your work with teammates or access it from anywhere.
    To send your commits from the Local Repository → Remote Repository, you run:
    git push origin main
    (or whichever branch you’re working on).

    To get updates from others, you use:
    git pull origin main
    This keeps everyone’s work synchronized.
    
What is repository in git ?
    A repository (repo) in Git is like a storage space for your project where Git tracks and manages the entire history of your files.

    It contains:
    All your project files and folders (code, documents, etc.).
    Hidden .git folder (created when you run git init) which stores:
    commits
    branches
    configuration
    and the history of every change.

    👉 There are two types of repositories in Git workflow:
    Local Repository: stored on your computer.
    Remote Repository: stored on platforms like GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket.

Local vs remote repository ?
    Local Repository
    Stored on your own computer.
    Created when you run git init or clone a repo.
    Contains all your commits, branches, and history.
    You can work offline (make commits, switch branches, view logs).

    Example commands:
    git commit → saves changes to local repo
    git log → shows commit history
    👉 Analogy: Your personal notebook/diary 📓 that only you can write in.

    Remote Repository
    Stored on a server (cloud) like GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket.
    Accessible by you and your teammates.
    Used for collaboration and backup.
    Requires internet to sync.

    Example commands:
    git push → sends commits from local → remote
    git pull → fetches changes from remote → local
    👉 Analogy: A shared online Google Doc 🌐 where everyone can contribute and stay updated.

    ✅ In short:
    Local repo = on your computer (private work).
    Remote repo = on GitHub/GitLab/etc. (shared work).

ctrl + shift + . to show hidden folder
Commands
git config --global user.name "User name"
git config --global user.email "User email"
    1. Set Global Username
    git config --global user.name "User name"
    This tells Git the name that will appear in your commits.
    Example: if you set user.name to Kshitiz Joshi, every commit will show:
    Author: Kshitiz Joshi <youremail@example.com>

    2. Set Global Email
    git config --global user.email "User email"
    This sets the email address linked with your commits.
    This email should ideally be the same one used in your GitHub account, so commits appear linked to your GitHub profile.

    Why --global?
    --global means these settings apply to all repositories on your computer.
    If you want to set a different name/email for just one repository, you can omit --global:
    git config user.name "Another Name"
    git config user.email "another@email.com"
    
    👉 To check your settings:
    git config --list